So let's start working on this auth screen,
I will work on it throughout this module,
now I just want to add some elements so that we can play around with them from a styling perspective.
On this auth screen, I guess it makes sense to have some heading where we say please login, maybe something
like that,
then I eventually want to have a button where we can switch between login and sign up,
so here I'll just hard code switch to login but we'll later dynamically change this depending in which
mode we are, then we have our submit button so I'm going to change the title and then I want to have
up to three text inputs, either two text inputs
if we are in login mode just for email and password or three text inputs if we are in sign up mode for
one extra input to also confirm the password.
So for that, I'll first of all also import text input from react native,
now let's add the text input here in our component and the text input is a self-closing element.
Now we can always hook this up and make it work correctly later,
for now I just want to add a placeholder here where I say your email address and then I'll add two more
for now,
the second one should accept the user password and the third one will accept the confirm password.
Now as I said, I will hook up this form later so that we have two-way binding and we also will show different
soft keyboards for different inputs,
all of that will be done later,
now I want to focus on the styling.
Let's save this
and if you turn on life reloading on your applications, you see it works,
we get a warning here on the right that we're missing the onPress hook on our button, we'll add this soon
but here we get our inputs.
Now obviously the styling of these inputs could be improved and the overall styling of the login form
of the authentication page is not where I want it to be.
I want to have my entire login content here centered in the page,
so in the middle so that the user immediately sees it when he looks at my page and of course, I want
to change the way this text looks,
I want to maybe also change the way these inputs look,
I want to have some padding between the edge of my screen and all these elements,
these are all things I want to improve.
Now let's do that step by step,
let's first of all center everything.
How does centering work?
I touched on this earlier in this course, we use flex box for this,
keep in mind all our content here is held by a view and a view is a container which we can style with
flex box where we can lay out the child elements with flex box.
So for this first of all, let's create a stylesheet here because you learn you should use one if possible,
so let's create a new styles property here below our component code
and that actually is reaching out to stylesheet and calls the create method where we pass a javascript
object configuring our stylesheet
and here I want to have some container property
and regarding the naming of these properties, it's totally up to you but it makes sense to give the wrapping
container a name like container so that if someone else looks at your code, has an easy time finding
out where this style might be applied to.
Let's first of all give this a border color of red,
just to see where this container starts and ends, to see that border,
we also need to set border width to at least one though.
Now let's assign this container to this view by setting the style property there to styles container.
Let's save this
and now if our application reloads,
we reload it manually if doesn't automatically,
you should see this red border.
Now one thing we can immediately see is that our container which contains the entire content of the
auth screen doesn't take the full available space.
Now you learned why that is,
you learned that you need to set one specific style property if you want that behavior.
Now let's first of all inspect this,
you can turn on the inspector,
the cool thing is if react native debugger is attached and you click on there, it also selects the
element here on the right in this component view,
so wherever you click here, it then selects that element here on the right too
so that's pretty convenient,
we turn on the inspector and turn off the inspector now. And I'm interested in that view which is my wrapper
for the auth screen, if
we have a look at the auth screen itself,
it has no style,
the view however has some styling, here you see this is the default styling it assumes
and you see our rules down there.
Now you can click here next to this curly brace to add a new style
and watch what happens if I now enter flex one here.
Now you see suddenly the red border spans the entire screen size,
the reason for this is that flex one basically instructs this view to take all the available space, to
be very precise,
flex one simply tells your priority to get a piece of the available space is one.
If we had a sibling element to this view,
so a sibling in auth screen which we don't
but if we had this and this sibling would also have flex one, then each would get 50% of the
screen because they have the same priority, here it's the only element but previously without flex one,
it had no priority, so it only took what it needs defined by its children.
If you set flex one, it takes what it get sent here with no sibling,
that's actually all the space.
So we need to set flex one to have the full space available because only if we have the full space available
we can position our elements in there
and if I want to center them in the middle of our page, I first of all need to get access to the full
page.
So with that, let's actually remove the border color red, the border width and let's add flex one.
Now let's save this
and if it reloads, it's looks just like before because we haven't added any other meaningful rule.
Let's dive into that again,
so let's expand this until we get this view again and let's add another style, let's play
around with justify content and align items.
Remember the slides I showed you earlier in this course, justify content is used to distribute elements
along the main axis, the main axis is defined by the direction of flex box and the default direction is
column,
so from top to bottom.
So if we add justified content here and set this to center, it should actually be centered in the middle
of the page vertically,
so let's add center without quotation marks
and now our content is centered in the middle of the screen.
You can also see that if I now add flex direction, all camel case because we're not using real css here
and I would set this to row,
it actually is totally messed up because now it's distributing it from left to right. Now the default
which we don't have to set is column
but again we don't have to set this because well, it's the default.
So this is already looking a bit better but it would also be nice to have horizontal centering then
right,
well for this we need to center on the cross axis
and as you learned earlier, you can do this with align items. Align item centers only cross axis
since our axis or our direction is column from top to bottom, the cross axis is from left to right.
So here if we enter center, now we got horizontal centering too and all of a sudden this looks much better.
So let's add these set ups or these styles here, let's set justify content to and here you need quotation
marks to center because otherwise it would try to refer to some variable named center and also align
items to center.
Now if we save both and let it reload, we should have the styling we saw before but now out of the box,
clearly the widths of our inputs aren't awesome, especially on Android
we can see this, it only takes the width it needs to take and it doesn't respect the placeholder for that,
so we will need to do something about that.
But at least we got our flex box positioning done and definitely play around with that to feel very
confident using flex box because it's so important to be aware of how to use it to create nice looking
appealing UIs.